



KT Working Group                                            B. McMillion
Internet-Draft                                           2 February 2023
Intended status: Informational                                          
Expires: 6 August 2023


                            Key Transparency
                draft-mcmillion-key-transparency-latest

Abstract

   While there are several established protocols for end-to-end
   encryption, relatively little attention has been given to securely
   distributing the end-user public keys for such encryption.  As a
   result, these protocols are often still vulnerable to eavesdropping
   by active attackers.  Key Transparency is a protocol for distributing
   sensitive cryptographic information, such as public keys, in a way
   that reliably either prevents interference or detects that it occured
   in a timely manner.  In addition to distributing public keys, it can
   also be applied to ensure that a group of users agree on a shared
   value or to keep tamper-evident logs of security-critical events.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/Bren2010/draft-key-transparency.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 6 August 2023.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Protocol Overview
     3.1.  Basic Operations
     3.2.  Deployment Modes
     3.3.  Security Guarantees
     3.4.  Privacy Guarantees
   4.  Tree Construction
     4.1.  Log Tree
     4.2.  Prefix Tree
     4.3.  Combined Tree
   5.  Preserving Privacy
   6.  Ciphersuites
   7.  Cryptographic Computations
     7.1.  Commitment
     7.2.  Prefix Tree
     7.3.  Log Tree
     7.4.  Tree Head Signature
   8.  User Operations
     8.1.  Search
     8.2.  Update
     8.3.  Monitor
   9.  Third-party Protocols
     9.1.  Management
     9.2.  Auditing
   10. Out-of-Band Communication
   11. Security Considerations
   12. IANA Considerations
     12.1.  KT Ciphersuites
     12.2.  KT Designated Expert Pool
   13. References
     13.1.  Normative References
     13.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Before any information can be exchanged in an end-to-end encrypted
   system, two things must happen.  First, participants in the system
   must provide any public keys they intend to use for encryption to the
   service operator.  Second, the service operator must somehow
   distribute these public keys to any participants that will rely on
   them for decryption.

   Typically this is done by having users upload their public keys to a
   simple directory where other users can download them as necessary.
   With this approach, the service operator is trusted not to manipulate
   the directory by inserting malicious public keys, which means the
   underlying encryption protocol can only protect users against passive
   eavesdropping on their messages.

   However most messaging systems are designed such that all messages
   exchanged flow through the service operator's servers, so it's
   extremely easy for an operator to launch an active attack.  That is,
   the service operator can insert public keys into the directory that
   they know the private key for, attach those public keys to a user's
   account without the user's knowledge, and then inject these keys into
   active conversations with that user to receive plaintext data.

   Key Transparency (KT) solves this problem by requiring the service
   operator to store user public keys in a cryptographically-protected
   append-only log.  Any malicious entries added to such a log will
   generally be equally visible to all users, in which case a user can
   trivially detect that they're being impersonated by viewing the
   public keys attached to their account.  However, if the service
   operator attempts to conceal some entries of the log from some users
   but not others, this creates a "forked view" which is permanent and
   easily detectable with out-of-band communication.

   The critical improvement of KT over related protocols like
   Certificate Transparency [I-D.ietf-trans-rfc6962-bis] is that KT
   includes an efficient protocol to search the log for entries related
   to a specific participant.  This means users don't need to download
   the entire log, which may be substantial, to find all entries that
   are relevant to them.  It also means that KT can better preserve user
   privacy by only showing entries of the log to participants that
   genuinely need to see them.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Protocol Overview

   From a networking perspective, KT follows a client-server
   architecture with a central _Transparency Log_, acting as a server,
   which holds the authoritative copy of all information and exposes
   endpoints that allow clients to query or modify stored data.  Clients
   coordinate with each other through the server by uploading their own
   public keys and downloading the public keys of other clients.
   Clients are expected to maintain relatively little state, limited
   only to what is required to interact with the log and ensure that it
   is behaving honestly.

   From an application perspective, KT works as a versioned key-value
   database.  Clients insert key-value pairs into the database where,
   for example, the key is their username and the value is their public
   key.  Clients can update a key by inserting a new version with new
   data.  They can also lookup the most recent version of a key or any
   past version.  From this point forward, "key" will refer to a lookup
   key in a key-value database and "public key" or "private key" will be
   specified if otherwise.

   Note that while this document provides specific protocol messages and
   the way that those messages would be encoded, it does not require the
   use of a specific transport protocol.  This is intended to allow
   applications to layer KT on top of whatever transport protocol their
   application already uses.  In particular, this allows applications to
   continue relying on their existing access control system.

   Applications may enforce arbitrary access control rules on top of KT
   such as requiring a user to be logged in to make KT requests, only
   allowing a user to lookup the keys of another user if they're
   "friends", or simply applying a rate limit.  Applications SHOULD
   prevent users from modifying keys that they don't own.  The exact
   mechanism for rejecting requests, and possibly explaining the reason
   for rejection, is left to the application.

   Finally, this document does not assume that clients can reliably
   communicate with each other out-of-band (that is, away from any
   interference by the Transparency Log operator), or communicate with
   the Transparency Log anonymously.  However, later sections will give
   guidance on how these channels can be utilized effectively when or if
   they're available.

3.1.  Basic Operations

   The operations that can be executed by a client are as follows:

   1.  *Search:* Looks up a specific key in the most recent version of
       the log.  Clients may request either a specific version of the
       key, or the most recent version available.  If the key/version
       exists, the server returns the corresponding value and a proof of
       inclusion.  If the key/version does not exist, the server returns
       a proof of non-inclusion instead.

   2.  *Update:* Adds a new key-value pair to the log and returns a
       proof of inclusion.  Note that this means insertions are
       completed immediately and are not subject to a delay.

   3.  *Monitor:* While Search and Update are run by the client as
       necessary, monitoring is done in the background on a recurring
       basis.  It both checks that the log is continuing to behave
       honestly and that no changes have been made to keys owned by the
       client without the client's knowledge.

3.2.  Deployment Modes

   In the interest of satisfying the widest range of use-cases possible,
   three different modes for deploying a Transparency Log are described
   in this document.  Each mode has slightly different requirements and
   efficiency considerations for both the service operator and the end-
   user.

   *Third-party Management* and *Third-party Auditing* are two
   deployment modes that require the service operator to delegate part
   of the operation of the Transparency Log to a third-party.  Users are
   able to run more efficiently as long as they can assume that the
   service operator and the third-party won't collude to trick them into
   accepting malicious results.

   With both third-party modes, all requests from end-users are
   initially routed to the service operator and the service operator
   coordinates with the third-party themself.  End-users never contact
   the third-party directly, however they will need a signature public
   key from the third-party to verify the third-party's assertions.

   With Third-party Management, the third-party performs the majority of
   the work of actually storing and operating the log, and the service
   operator only needs to sign new entries as they're added.  With
   Third-party Auditing, the service operator performs the majority of
   the work of storing and operating the log, and obtains signatures
   from a lightweight third-party auditor at regular intervals asserting
   that the service operator has been constructing the tree correctly.

   *Contact Monitoring*, on the other hand, supports a single-party
   deployment with no third-party.  The tradeoff is that the background
   monitoring protocol requires a number of requests that's proportional
   to the number of keys a user has looked up in the past.  As such,
   it's less suited to use-cases where users look up a large number of
   ephemeral keys, but would work ideally in a use-case where users look
   up a small number of keys repeatedly (for example, the keys of
   regular contacts).

   The deployment mode of a Transparency Log is chosen when the log is
   first created and isn't able to be changed over the log's lifetime.
   This makes it important for operators to carefully consider the best
   long-term approach based on the specifics of their application.

3.3.  Security Guarantees

   A client that executes a Search or Update operation correctly (and
   does any required monitoring afterwards) receives a guarantee that
   the Transparency Log operator also executed the operation correctly
   and in a way that's globally consistent with what it has shown all
   other clients.  That is, when a client searches for a key, they're
   guaranteed that the result they receive represents the same result
   that any other client searching for the same key would've seen.  When
   a client updates a key, they're guaranteed that other clients will
   see the update the next time they search for the key.

   If the Transparency Log operator does not execute an operation
   correctly, then either:

   1.  The client will detect the error immediately and reject the
       result of an operation, or

   2.  The client will permanently enter an invalid state.

   Depending on the exact reason that the client enters an invalid
   state, it will either be detected by background monitoring or the
   next time that out-of-band communication is available.  Importantly,
   this means that clients must stay online for some fixed amount of
   time after entering an invalid state for it to be successfully
   detected.

   The exact caveats of the above guarantee depend naturally on the
   security of underlying cryptographic primitives, but also the
   deployment mode that the Transparency Log relies on:

   *  Third-Party Management and Third-Party Auditing require an
      assumption that the Transparency Log operator and the third-party
      manager/auditor do not collude to trick clients into accepting
      malicious results.

   *  Contact Monitoring requires an assumption that the client that
      owns a key and all clients that look up the key do the necessary
      monitoring afterwards.

3.4.  Privacy Guarantees

   TODO

4.  Tree Construction

   KT relies on two combined hash tree structures: log trees and prefix
   trees.  This section describes the operation of both at a high-level
   and the way that they're combined.  More precise algorithms for
   computing the intermediate and root values of the trees will be given
   in a later section.

   Both types of trees consist of _nodes_ which have a byte string as
   their _value_. A node is either a _leaf_ if it has no children, or a
   _parent_ if it has either a _left child_ or a _right child_. A node
   is the _root_ of a tree if it has no parents, and an _intermediate_
   if it has both children and parents.  Nodes are _siblings_ if they
   share the same parent.

   The _descendants_ of a node are that node, its children, and the
   descendants of its children.  A _subtree_ of a tree is the tree given
   by the descendants of any node, called the _head_ of the subtree.

   The _direct path_ of a root node is the empty list, and of any other
   node is the concatenation of that node's parent along with the
   parent's direct path.  The _copath_ of a node is the node's sibling
   concatenated with the list of siblings of all the nodes in its direct
   path, excluding the root.

4.1.  Log Tree

   Log trees are used for storing information in the chronological order
   that it was added and are constructed as _left-balanced_ binary
   trees.

   A binary tree is _balanced_ if its size is a power of two and for any
   parent node in the tree, its left and right subtrees have the same
   size.  A binary tree is _left-balanced_ if for every parent, either
   the parent is balanced, or the left subtree of that parent is the
   largest balanced subtree that could be constructed from the leaves
   present in the parent's own subtree.  Given a list of n items, there
   is a unique left-balanced binary tree structure with these elements
   as leaves.  Note also that every parent always has both a left and
   right child.

   Log trees initially consist of a single leaf node.  New leaves are
   added to the right-most edge of the tree along with a single parent
   node, to construct the left-balanced binary tree with n+1 leaves.

   While the value of a leaf is arbitrary, the value of a parent node is
   always the hash of the combined values of its left and right
   children.

   Log trees are special in that they can provide both _inclusion
   proofs_, which demonstrate that a leaf is included in a log, and
   _consistency proofs_, which demonstrate that a new version of a log
   is an extension of a past version of the log.

   An inclusion proof is given by providing the copath values of a leaf.
   The proof is verified by hashing together the leaf with the copath
   values and checking that the result equals the root value of the log.
   Consistency proofs are a more general version of the same idea.  With
   a consistency proof, the prover provides the minimum set of
   intermediate node values from the current tree that allows the
   verifier to compute both the old root value and the current root
   value.

4.2.  Prefix Tree

   Prefix trees are used for storing key-value pairs while preserving
   the ability to efficiently look up a value by its corresponding key.

   Each leaf node in a prefix tree represents a specific key-value pair,
   while each parent node represents some prefix which all keys in the
   subtree headed by that node have in common.  The subtree headed by a
   parent's left child contains all keys that share its prefix followed
   by an additional 0 bit, while the subtree headed by a parent's right
   child contains all keys that share its prefix followed by an
   additional 1 bit.

   The root node, in particular, represents the empty string as a
   prefix.  The root's left child contains all keys that begin with a 0
   bit, while the right child contains all keys that begin with a 1 bit.

   A prefix tree can be searched by starting at the root node, and
   moving to the left child if the first bit of a search key is 0, or
   the right child if the first bit is 1.  This is then repeated for the
   second bit, third bit, and so on until the search either terminates
   at a leaf node (which may or may not be for the desired key), or a
   parent node that lacks the desired child.

   New key-value pairs are added to the tree by searching it according
   to this process.  If the search terminates at a parent without a left
   or right child, a new leaf is simply added as the parent's missing
   child.  If the search terminates at a leaf for the wrong key, one or
   more intermediate nodes are added until the new leaf and the old leaf
   would no longer reside in the same place.  That is, until we reach
   the first bit that differs between the new key and the old key.

   The value of a leaf node is the encoded key-value pair, while the
   value of a parent node is the hash of the combined values of its left
   and right children (or a stand-in value when one of the children
   doesn't exist).

4.3.  Combined Tree

   Log trees are desirable because they can provide efficient
   consistency proofs to assure verifiers that nothing has been removed
   from a log that was present in a previous version.  However, log
   trees can't be efficiently searched without downloading the entire
   log.  Prefix trees are efficient to search and can provide inclusion
   proofs to convince verifiers that the returned search results are
   correct.  However, it's not possible to efficiently prove that a new
   version of a prefix tree contains the same data as a previous version
   with only new keys added.

   In the combined tree structure, which is based on [Merkle2], a log
   tree maintains a record of updates to key-value pairs while a prefix
   tree maintains a map from each key to a counter with the number of
   times it's been updated.  Importantly, the root value of the prefix
   tree after adding the new key or increasing the counter of an
   existing key, is stored in the log tree alongside the record of the
   update.  With some caveats, this combined structure supports both
   efficient consistency proofs and can be efficiently searched.

   To search the combined structure, users do a binary search for the
   first log entry where looking up the search key in the prefix tree at
   that entry yields the desired counter.  As such, the entry that a
   user arrives at through binary search contains the update with the
   key-value pair that they're looking for, even though the log itself
   is not sorted.

   Binary search also ensures that all users will check the same or
   similar entries when searching for the same key, which is necessary
   for the efficient auditing of a Transparency Log. To maximize this
   effect, users start their binary search at the entry whose index is
   the largest power of two less than the size of the log, and move left
   or right by consecutively smaller powers of two.

   So for example in a log with 70 entries, instead of starting a search
   at the "middle" with entry 35, users would start at entry 64.  If the
   next step in the search is to move right, instead of moving to the
   middle of entries 64 and 70, which would be entry 67, users would
   move 4 steps (the largest power of two possible) to the right to
   entry 68.  As more entries are added to the log, users will
   consistently revisit entries 64 and 68, while they may never revisit
   entries 35 or 67 after even a single new entry is added to the log.

5.  Preserving Privacy

   In addition to being more convenient for many use-cases than similar
   transparency protocols, KT is also better at preserving the privacy
   of a Transparency Log's contents.  This is important because in many
   practical applications of KT, service operators expect to be able to
   control when sensitive information is revealed.  In particular, an
   operator can often only reveal that a user is a member of their
   service to that user's friends or contacts.  Operators may also wish
   to conceal when individual users perform a given task like rotate
   their public key or add a new device to their account, or even
   conceal the exact number of users their application has overall.

   Applications are primarily able to manage the privacy of their data
   in KT by enforcing access control policies on the basic operations
   performed by clients, as discussed in Section 3.  However, the proofs
   or inclusion and non-inclusion given by a Transparency Log can
   indirectly leak information about other entries and lookup keys.

   When users search for a key with the binary search algorithm
   described in Section 4.3, they necessarily see the values of several
   leaves while conducting their search that they may not be authorized
   to view the contents of.  However, log entries generally don't need
   to be inspected except as specifically allowed by the service.

   The privacy of log entries is maintained by storing only a
   cryptographic commitment to the serialized, updated key-value pair in
   the leaf of the log tree instead of the update itself.  At the end of
   a successful search, the service operator provides the committed
   update along with the commitment opening, which allows the user to
   verify that the commitment in the log tree really does correspond to
   the provided update.  By logging commitments instead of plaintext
   updates, users learn no information about an entry's contents unless
   the service operator explicitly provides the commitment opening.

   Beyond the log tree, the second potential source of privacy leaks is
   the prefix tree.  When receiving proofs of inclusion and non-
   inclusion from the prefix tree, users also receive indirect
   information about what other valid lookup keys exist.  To prevent
   this, all lookup keys are processed through a Verifiable Random
   Function, or VRF.

   A VRF deterministically maps each key to a fixed-length pseudorandom
   value.  The VRF can only be executed by the service operator, who
   holds a private key.  Critically, VRFs can still provide a proof that
   an input-output pair is valid, which users verify with a public key.
   When a user requests to search for or update a key, the service
   operator first executes its VRF on the input key to obtain the output
   key that will actually be looked up or stored in the prefix tree.
   The service operator then provides the output key, along with a proof
   that the output key is correct, in its response to the user.

   The pseudorandom output of VRFs means that even if a user indirectly
   observes that a search key exists in the prefix tree, they can't
   immediately learn which user the search key identifies.  Also, the
   inability of users to execute the VRF themselves prevents offline
   "password cracking" approaches, where an attacker tries all
   possibilities in a low entropy space (like the set of phone numbers)
   to find the input that produces a given search key.

6.  Ciphersuites

   Each Transparency Log uses a single fixed ciphersuite, chosen when
   the log is initially created, that specifies the following primitives
   to be used for cryptographic computations:

   *  A hash algorithm

   *  A signature algorithm

   *  A Verifiable Random Function (VRF) algorithm

   The hash algorithm is used for computing the intermediate and root
   values of hash trees.  The signature algorithm is used for signatures
   from both the service operator and the third-party, if one is
   present.  The VRF is used for preserving the privacy of lookup keys.
   One of the VRF algorithms from [I-D.irtf-cfrg-vrf] must be used.

   Ciphersuites are represented with the CipherSuite type.  The
   ciphersuites are defined in Section 12.1.

7.  Cryptographic Computations

7.1.  Commitment

   Commitments are computed with HMAC [RFC2104], using the hash function
   specified by the ciphersuite.  To produce a new commitment to a value
   called message, the application generates a random 16 byte value
   called opening and then computes:

   commitment = HMAC(fixedKey, "KT Commitment" || opening || message)

   where fixedKey is the 16 byte hex-decoded value:

   d821f8790d97709796b4d7903357c3f5

   The output value commitment may be published, while opening and
   message should be kept private until the commitment is meant to be
   revealed.

7.2.  Prefix Tree

   The leaf nodes of a prefix tree are serialized as:

   struct {
       opaque key<VRF.Nh>;
       uint32 counter;
   } PrefixLeaf;

   where key is the full search key, counter is the counter of times
   that the key has been updated (starting at 0), and VRF.Nh is the
   output size of the ciphersuite VRF in bytes.

   The parent nodes of a prefix tree are serialized as:

   struct {
     opaque value<Hash.Nh>;
   } PrefixParent;

   where Hash denotes the ciphersuite hash function and Hash.Nh is the
   output length of Hash.  The value of a parent node is computed by
   hashing together the values of its left and right children:

   parent.value = Hash(0x01 ||
                      childValue(parent.leftChild) ||
                      childValue(parent.rightChild))

   childValue(node):
     if node.type == emptyNode:
       return make([]byte, Hash.Nh)
     else if node.type == leafNode:
       return Hash(0x00 || node.key || node.counter)
     else if node.type == parentNode:
       return node.value

7.3.  Log Tree

   The leaf and parent nodes of a log tree are serialized as:

   struct {
     opaque commitment<Hash.Nh>;
     opaque prefix_tree<Hash.Nh>;
   } LogLeaf;

   struct {
     opaque value<Hash.Nh>;
   } LogParent;

   The value of a parent node is computed by hashing together the values
   of its left and right children:

   parent.value = Hash(childValue(parent.leftChild) ||
                      childValue(parent.rightChild))

   childValue(node):
     if node.type == leafNode:
       return 0x00 || Hash(node.commitment || node.prefix_tree)
     else if node.type == parentNode:
       return 0x01 || parent.value

7.4.  Tree Head Signature

   The head of a Transparency Log, which represents the log's most
   recent state, is represented as:

   struct {
     uint64 tree_size;
     uint64 timestamp;
     opaque signature<0..2^16-1>;
   } TreeHead;

   where tree_size counts the number of entries in the log tree and
   timestamp is the time that the structure was generated, in
   milliseconds since the Unix epoch.  If the Transparency Log is
   deployed with Third-party Management then the public key used to
   verify the signature belongs to the third-party manager; otherwise
   the public key used belongs to the service operator.

   The signature itself is computed over a TreeHeadTBS structure, which
   incorporates long-term log configuration as well as the log's current
   state:

   enum {
     reserved(0),
     contactMonitoring(1),
     thirdPartyManagement(2),
     thirdPartyAuditing(3),
   } DeploymentMode;

   struct {
     CipherSuite ciphersuite;
     DeploymentMode mode;
     opaque signature_public_key<0..2^16-1>;
     opaque vrf_public_key<0..2^16-1>;

     select (Configuration.mode) {
       case contactMonitoring:
       case thirdPartyManagement:
         opaque leaf_public_key<0..2^16-1>;
       case thirdPartyAuditing:
         opaque auditor_public_key<0..2^16-1>;
     }
   } Configuration;

   struct {
     Configuration config;
     uint64 tree_size;
     uint64 timestamp;
     opaque root_value<Hash.Nh>;
   } TreeHeadTBS;

8.  User Operations

8.1.  Search

8.2.  Update

8.3.  Monitor

9.  Third-party Protocols

9.1.  Management

9.2.  Auditing

10.  Out-of-Band Communication

11.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

12.  IANA Considerations

   This document requests the creation of the following new IANA
   registries:

   *  KT Ciphersuites (Section 12.1)

   All of these registries should be under a heading of "Key
   Transparency", and assignments are made via the Specification
   Required policy [RFC8126].  See Section 12.2 for additional
   information about the KT Designated Experts (DEs).

   RFC EDITOR: Please replace XXXX throughout with the RFC number
   assigned to this document

12.1.  KT Ciphersuites

   TODO

12.2.  KT Designated Expert Pool

   TODO

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

   [I-D.irtf-cfrg-vrf]
              Goldberg, S., Reyzin, L., Papadopoulos, D., and J. Včelák,
              "Verifiable Random Functions (VRFs)", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf-15, 9 August 2022,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-
              vrf-15>.

   [RFC2104]  Krawczyk, H., Bellare, M., and R. Canetti, "HMAC: Keyed-
              Hashing for Message Authentication", RFC Editor report,
              DOI 10.17487/rfc2104, February 1997,
              <https://doi.org/10.17487/rfc2104>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8126]  Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten, "Guidelines for
              Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26,
              RFC 8126, DOI 10.17487/RFC8126, June 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8126>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

13.2.  Informative References

   [I-D.ietf-trans-rfc6962-bis]
              Laurie, B., Langley, A., Kasper, E., Messeri, E., and R.
              Stradling, "Certificate Transparency Version 2.0", Work in
              Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-trans-rfc6962-bis-42,
              31 August 2021, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
              draft-ietf-trans-rfc6962-bis-42>.

   [Merkle2]  Hu, Y., Hooshmand, K., Kalidhindi, H., Yang, S. J., and R.
              A. Popa, "Merkle^2: A Low-Latency Transparency Log
              System", 8 April 2021, <https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/453>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Brendan McMillion
   Email: brendanmcmillion@gmail.com
